[[!meta title="Grok Overview"]]

Grok is a web-based Internet Protocol (IP) search tool designed to help
the user find and analyze network sessions in close to real time (5
minute).  It relies on the output generated by a packet capture and
session summary tool called `bag`.

The `bag` program runs on a Linux system, and continuously generates
5-minute full packet capture `libpcap` files, Internet session summary
files, and interface statistic files, round-robin, over a period limited
to the amount of disc storage available to the system.  In the LANL
case, an 8-terabyte file system accomodates seven days of data (most of
the time).

Summary information, such as top 20 outgoing and incoming network
services (such as www/tcp or 161/udp), along with network interface
statistics which indicated the health of the capture system, are plotted
every 5 minutes for display by the Grok web server.

The Grok web interface presents the analyst with a set of search
criteria used to query the information being collected by the bag
program.  Since the information ultimately resides in `pcap` files,
other `pcap` aware programs, such as `bro`, `wireshark`, 
`smacqq`, `snort`, and `tcpdump` have been incorporated into Grok's web
interface.  Clickable documentation is avaliable for each search
criteria.


Downloading
-----------

We are still working on making a nice package for grok; in the meantime,
here's what we have.

The current HEAD in git is probably the best place to start.  You may
[browse the code](/gitweb.cgi) online, or clone the tree:

    $ git clone http://dirtbags.net/projects/grok
    $ git clone http://dirtbags.net/projects/bag

Tarballs of the latest official release (December 2007) are also here,
but are by now pretty out of date.

* [grok 1.3](grok-1.3-src.1210096506.tar.gz)
* [bag 1.3](bag-1.3.20071203.tar.gz)
