---
title: Contest Introduction
---

We created the event to allow participats to try solving computer security
puzzles, and to engage in creative exploration in a safe environment with
reduced consequences for activities generally considered malicious or
illegal.  By providing a safe place to explore, defenders are better
able to learn what kinds of techniques they might need to defend
against.


Categories
==========

Our exercises feature multiple categories, which are typically not
related to each other.  Each category exercises a particular skillset.
For instance, a contest may feature codebreaking, file carving, rapid
code development, and Unix system administration.  Categories are either
considered "puzzles" or "live".

Puzzle categories are sequential, static puzzles that you can download
or write down and work on without further interaction with the contest
server.  Codebreaking an example of a puzzle category: you get a code,
write it down or save it to disk, and you can then detatch from the
contest network (or sometimes your computer).  Puzzle categories usually
award points when the correct answer is entered, at which time the next
puzzle in the sequence is presented.

Live categories require constant interaction with the contest network.
Unix administration is an example of a live category: it contains
running services which produce different results based on their input.
You must adjust your input to trigger the correct output for points.
Live puzzles are usually not sequential: running parallel to each other,
all open to all players.


Scoring
=======

The objective is to make the most points.

In our setup, each team is battling for a percentage of one point in
each active category, and percentages are added to obtain an overall
score for each team.  This setup rewards breadth and not depth: your
score will be higher initially if you solve one puzzle in four
categories, than if you solve four puzzles in one category.  This also
means that a 2 point puzzle in a category with 5 total points is worth
far more overall than a 300 point puzzle in a category with 7000 points.

In the drop-in setup, points are (hopefully) adjusted to reflect how
much effort we estimate is required to solve the puzzle.  You should be
able to solve puzzles in any order you want, without worrying about
point-scoring strategy.


Security of your computer
=========================

Most of our events require you to bring your own computer.  It is not a
good idea to bring a computer with important information to a computer
hacking contest.  We tell people to consider the contest network
hostile, to remove any important or sensitive information before they
come, and to strongly consider reinstalling the OS after they've left.

When everybody brings a clean computer they don't mind being
compromised, it's a much more fun event for everyone involved: nobody
needs to worry about acting in a way which might cause real damage to
anyone other participants.


Environment
===========

In our preferred setup, we dim the room lighting and play and no-vocals
"unts unts" electronic music.  We prefer banquet-style seating: round
tables that seat up to ten, with wired connections to the contest
network on a "head table".  We don't always get the setup we'd prefer,
though, and have run events in almost every setup imaginable, from
classrooms to computer labs to dance floors.
