Title: Tracer FIRE 5 Online

Tracer FIRE 5 Online ran Feb 4-8, 2012.
Like previous Tracer FIRE events,
Tracer FIRE 5 Online consisted of a 2-day training in 4 parallel tracks,
followed by a 2½-day game.
Unlike previous years,
both the trainings and the game were entirely online.
This allowed us to reach a far wider audience than in previous years:
at game start there were 583 registrations
across 10 countries.

There are always memorable moments at any Tracer FIRE,
and Tracer FIRE 5 Online was, surprisingly,
no different.
Highlights included:

* After four years publishing all game tokens to a public git repository,
	at least two teams
	[finally found the repository](http://hackucf.org/blog/tracerfire-5-project-2-host-275100-wopr-17/)
	and claimed every point possible in two categories just before the event closed.
* Due to a build error,
	the "steg" category was unsolvable­or so we initially thought.
	One team picked up on an offhand comment Neale made in IRC
	about what the page was supposed to contain,
	matched that up with a puzzle from the "indy" category,
	and submitted the "indy" answer to score points.
* At one point or another, contestants across the planet were
	repeatedly tilting their heads side to side in an attempt to solve indy 15.

Post-event links:

* The [final scoreboard](scoreboard.html)
* [KnightSec write-up](http://hackucf.org/blog/category/writeups/tracerfire5-writeups/)
	of a few puzzles

If your team creates any write-ups,
please email the link to zephyr@dirtbags.net.

Lastly, we would have had to kick out approximately 300 registrants
had it not been for the good folks at [Linode](http://linode.com/)
stepping forward with a donated virtual server to host the
non-government version of the game.
Thank you so much, guys.
