Title: Capture The Flag 2010

*What:* Capture The Flag (CTF) competition  
*Where:* Fidel Center Ballroom, New Mexico Tech, Socorro, NM  
*When:* October 29 &amp; 30 2010, 10:00am - 6:00pm

About
=====

Capture The Flag puts teams head-to-head in a skills test covering
cybersecurity, systems administration, programming, codebreaking,
digital forensics, mathematics, and more.

2010 CTF is brought to you by the Advanced Computing Solutions Program
Office (ACS-PO) at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL), in conjunction
with the New Mexico Tech Computer Science department, and the New Mexico
Tech chapter of the Association of Computing Machinery (ACM).

The contests and puzzles in the event are designed to be fun and challenging
for newbies and cyber security professionals alike, so don't worry if you 
aren't a *1337 h4xx0r*.  Register a team and come have some fun.


Teams
=====

<table>
  <tr><th>Name</th><th>Size</th></tr>
  <tr><td>ELC</td><td>10</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Cinderella</td><td>9</td></tr>
  <tr><td>ma.icio.us</td><td>3</td></tr>
  <tr><td>ND</td><td>1</td></tr>
  <tr><td>MB</td><td>1</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Team Marcos</td><td>1</td></tr>
  <tr><td>SL</td><td>1</td></tr>
  <tr><td>DG</td><td>1</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Cucumber Annihilators</td><td>2</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Kool1</td><td>1</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Waycaster</td><td>1</td></tr>
  <tr><td>bbb</td><td>5</td></tr>
  <tr><td>GA</td><td>1</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Spring Loaded Flying Intestines</td><td>9</td></tr>
  <tr><td>SFS forgot to register on time</td><td>10</td></tr>
</table>

Teams of size 1 should really hop on IRC to see about joining up into
larger teams.  It isn't that we doubt your skills, but the larger teams
are just going to dominate you guys by sheer volume.

If you didn't register your team but would still like to come, stop by
and we'll make every effort to get you in.  If you'd be driving from out
of town, please <a href="mailto:zephyr@dirtbags.net">email me</a> and
let me know so we can make sure you'll have space.


CTF Chat
========

You can join other CTF participants on IRC: woozle.org channel #ctf.
You can connect with SSL on ports 994 or 6697.


What to Bring
=============

Each team will get their own table with chairs, an ethernet cable
connected to the contest network, and a power strip.  Teams may borrow
an 8-port mini-switch if they need one, although you are encouraged to
bring your own networking gear.

Each team is expected to provide any laptops, desktops (remember that
there is limited space), network cables, storage devices, and additional
networking equipment they need in order to work.  No meals are provided,
but there are several restaurants close to the university.

To get an idea about what's helpful to bring, the dirtbags team brings
the following items to Defcon oCTF:

* An OpenWRT router with the ngircd and vsftpd packages installed, to
  be a firewall, file server, and IRC server
* A mirror of the Debian testing i386 archive (attached to router)
* A tetherable cell phone for Internet access
* Two 8-port mini-switches
* Two ethernet cables per team member
* One extension cord per team member


Rules
=====

While almost anything goes, there are a few rules in place to make sure
everyone gets to enjoy the event.  If you break the rules, we will
kick you out for the rest of the game, and may refuse to let you in
again in future events.

1. No ARP-level attacks (garp, IP spoofing, DHCP servers)
2. No DoS attacks
3. No disruptive behavior

Consider the network hostile.  You may want to rebuild your machine
after the contest ends.  Bring a machine with personal information at
your peril.

LANL, NMT, and the NMT ACS chapter are not responsible for what happens
to your machine on the event network.


Questions?
==========

If you have any questions that this page doesn't address (like, say
you're at Colorado School of Mines and need help convincing a professor
to give you some slack so you can drive down), hop on IRC or [mail
me](mailto:zephyr@dirtbags.net?subject=posters:xurat-tulox) and I'll see
what I can do to help you out.

