Title: Open Capture The Flag @ Defcon 19

*What:* Open Capture The Flag  
*Where:* [Defcon 19](https://defcon.org/)  
*When:* 10am to 10pm, Friday and Saturday

About
=====

Open Capture The Flag puts teams head-to-head in a skills test covering
cybersecurity, systems administration, programming, codebreaking,
digital forensics, mathematics, and more.

The contests and puzzles in the event are designed to be educational and
challenging for newcomers and cyber security professionals alike, so
don't worry if people commonly address you by a name without numbers in
it.  Register a team and come have some fun.


Registration
============

Registration is not currently open, but will be when we get confirmation
that we're actually running oCTF this year.

Although drop-ins are allowed, you are encouraged to register to secure
a table for your team.  Each team will get a table, each table has
seating for up to 10.  You may organize this however you want.  Larger
teams inevitable benefit from sheer volume, but small teams may focus on
a subset of categories if they're not interested in trying to place
overall.


What to Bring
=============

Each team will get their own table with 10 chairs, an ethernet cable
connected to the contest network on 10.x.0.0/16 (each team gets their
own x), and a power strip.

Teams are expected to provide any computers, switches, cables, storage
devices, and additional equipment they need in order to work.

To get an idea about what's helpful to bring, the Dirtbags team at past
oCTF events has brought:

* One laptop per team member, with their favorite OS--Debian GNU/Linux
  is a favorite--and a Virtual Machine installed with some version of
  Windows
* An OpenWRT router with the ngircd and vsftpd packages installed, to
  be a firewall, file server, and IRC server
* A mirror of the Debian testing i386 archive (attached to router)
* A tetherable cell phone for Internet access (this is spotty, though,
  don't count on any Internet access for any extended period of time)
* Two 8-port mini-switches
* Two ethernet cables per team member
* One extension cord per team member


Discussion
==========

Discussion will take place on the Defcon forums.
