Title: 2011 Capture The Flag @ Central Michigan University

*What:* Capture The Flag (CTF) competition  
*Where:* Pearce Hall Room 424, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant, MI  
*When:* January 22-23, 10am-8pm

About
=====

Capture The Flag puts teams head-to-head in a skills test covering
cybersecurity, systems administration, programming, codebreaking,
digital forensics, mathematics, and more.

The contests and puzzles in the event are designed to be fun and
challenging for newbies and cyber security professionals alike, so don't
worry if you're a newb.  Register a team and come have some fun.


Registration
============

Registration is open to all students at area colleges and universities.

If you would like to participate in the event, please register a team by
**January 17, 2011**.  Teams may have between 1 and 10 members.
Although larger teams inevitably benefit from sheer volume, small teams
can make significant headway.  We allow teams to join up before or
during the contest.



CTF Chat
========

You can join other CTF participants on IRC: [woozle.org channel
\#ctf](irc://woozle.org/ctf). You can connect with SSL on ports 994 or
6697.


What to Bring
=============

Each team will get their own table with chairs, an ethernet cable
connected to the contest network, and a power strip.  Teams may borrow
an 8-port mini-switch if they need one, although you are encouraged to
bring your own networking gear.

Each team is expected to provide any laptops, desktops (remember that
there is limited space), network cables, storage devices, and additional
networking equipment they need in order to work.  No meals are provided,
but there are several restaurants close to the university.

Although you can use any operating system you wish, the most successful
teams in the past have mostly run Unix variants.  This is probably due
to most Unix installs coming standard useful tools such as telnet, hex
dump, file, and scripting languages.

To get an idea about what's helpful to bring, the dirtbags team brings
the following items to Defcon oCTF:

* One laptop per team member, with their favorite OS--Debian GNU/Linux
  is a favorite--and a Virtual Machine installed with some version of
  Windows
* An OpenWRT router with the ngircd and vsftpd packages installed, to
  be a firewall, file server, and IRC server
* A mirror of the Debian testing i386 archive (attached to router)
* A tetherable cell phone for Internet access
* Two 8-port mini-switches
* Two ethernet cables per team member
* One extension cord per team member


Rules
=====

We have set up an environment in which you will engage in behaviors
which are illegal outside of the contest: breaking in to machines,
stealing information, etc.  Nevertheless, there are a few rules in place
to assure everyone gets to enjoy the event.  If you break the rules, we
will kick you out for the rest of the event, and may refuse to let you
in again in future events.

1. No ARP-level attacks (garp, IP spoofing, DHCP servers)
2. No DoS attacks
3. No disruptive behavior

Consider the network hostile: we are not responsible for what happens to
any device plugged in to the event network.  You may want to reinstall
your laptop after the contest ends.  Bring a machine with personal
information at your peril.



Questions?
==========

If you have any questions that this page doesn't address), hop on IRC or
[mail me](mailto:zephyr@dirtbags.net?token=posters:xurat-tulox) and
I'll see what I can do to help you out.

