Title: Summer Hacking School

June 9 - July 28, 2010  
7:00pm - 8:00pm  
HT building, Northern New Mexico College  
Española, New Mexico

Before you can design secure systems, you need to understand how attacks
happen; and before you can understand how attacks happen, you have to
know how to attack.  In summer hacking school, you'll learn about all
aspects of computer security, from the obvious: math and programming; to
the subtle: sociology and law.

June 9: Social Engineering
--------------------------

In the first class, we'll get right to what everyone wants to know: how
to hack your friend's Facebook account.  We'll talk about spam, scams,
and phishing, how the bad guys turn your own kindness against you, and
how you can spot these tricks.

We'll learn how to "spoof" email to make it look like it's coming from
anyone in the world, what measures are being put into place to make this
difficult, and why it's taking so long to fix the problem.

We'll also start working on the final project: tricking our volunteers
(your friends and family) into doing something they shouldn't do on
their computers.

[More about this class](soceng.html)


June 16: Being Sneaky
------------------------

We will talk about what your ISP can see, what they can't see, and how
you can be in charge of deciding this.  We'll learn about the difference
between authentication, encryption, and anonymity.  We'll discuss
steganography (hiding information, like the Trojan Horse), and we'll
discuss the benefits to society as well as the costs to society of these
techniques.

Lastly, you will create a PGP key pair, and sign everybody else's, so we
can use public channels to exchange secret messages with each other.

[More about this class](sneaky.html)


June 23: Hacking the Web
------------------------

HTML forms, JavaScript, XSS

Lab: Rewrite an HTML form to buy a digital camera for $1



June 30: Codebreaking
---------------------

In this class, we'll go over the last 1000 years of encryption
technology, starting with the monoalphabetic substitution cipher used
almost until World War I, and how to crack it.

We'll finish up with SSL/TLS, and talk about the current balance of
power between those who want to communicate securely and those who want
to read those communications.

You'll get to try your hand at breaking some actual encryption, and
learn a technique to pass secret messages using only a deck of cards,
which is considered stronger encryption than what your mobile phone uses!


July 7: Viruses and Worms
-------------------------

How they work, who's behind them, and the money involved.

Lab: Play tanks


July 14: Electronic Fingerprints
--------------------------------

What the Internet knows about you.  How information is combined to form
something more useful.  How to use these same tools for your own benefit.

Just for Devin, we'll talk about different techniques to get around
firewalls.

Lab: we'll trace some email, and then try to send some untraceable email
to each other.


July 21: We Launch Our Attack
-----------------------------

We'll use this entire class to perfect our attacks against our friends,
and launch the attacks when we're all done.


July 28: Results
----------------

We'll see how our attacks did, talk about Def Con in Las Vegas, and pick
hacker names for ourselves.

