Title: Dirtbags@DC18

The Dirtbus
-----------

In an effort to make it affordable, we're trying to recruit people for a
vanpool and room sharing.  We can rent a 7-passenger mini-van for $424,
figure $200 for gas.  Rooms at nearby hotels are around $50 per night,
double-occupancy.  Def Con registration is $140.  If we put 3 people per
room, we've got:

     140     Registration
      50     Lodging
      29     Gas
      61     Van
    + 40     Groceries
    ------------------------
    $320     Cost per person

This is assuming a full fan (7 people).

The plan is to leave on Thursday morning, and try to cover the 670-mile
drive with as few stops as possible.  BirdZerk, who's going to Black Hat,
will buy badges for anyone who gives him cash in advance, so when we arrive
we can get our rooms and crash (or party).

Let me <zephyr@dirtbags.net> know if you'd like in on this.


Open Capture The Flag
---------------------

We will participate in Open Capture The Flag again this year.  We need
people in the following roles:

* Gofer: gofer drinks, gofer food, gofer equipment, gofer schwag, etc.
* Dedicated h4x0r: plan to be working with us most of the event
* Casual h4x0r: drop by and help out when you're otherwise unoccupied
* Home audience: VPN in, hop on IRC, and assist when you can, or just cheer us on
* Cheerleader: swing by occasionally and chat with us, so we remember to take breaks

We also need people to help out beforehand by designing and ordering
dirtbags stickers (zephyr will foot the bill).

Please get in touch with me <zephyr@dirtbags.net> if you're interested.


So far we have:

* zephyr: dedicated
* slackish: dedicated
* chash: casual
* BirdZerk: casual



Portable Tanks
--------------

We've optimized pflarr's tanks game to the point that we can run a
12-tank game on an Asus WL-520GU router!  Since the thing is so low
power, we can run it off of a lantern battery, although we may choose to
just plug it in. We'll be handing out business cards with the ESSID and
WPA2 key, so that people can hop on and play tanks at the Con.

If you want to play tanks, be sure to hit us up for a card early on,
since we're only bringing a couple dozen.
