[[!meta title="Capture the flag information"]]

*What:* Capture The Flag (CTF) competition  
*Where:* New Mexico Tech (specific location TBA)  
*When:* October 16 &amp; 17, 10am to 10pm

About
=====

The Advanced Computing Solutions Program Office (ACS-PO) at
Los Alamos National Laboratory ([LANL](http://www.lanl.gov/ "LANL")),
in collaboration with Sandia National Laboratory 
([SNL](http://www.sandia.gov/ "SNL")), has developed a team-based
computer security competition in the form of a Capture
The Flag (CTF) event.

The competition aims to provide hands-on, interactive training that
introduces or enhances skills that are useful in the cyber security
field (e.g., network programming, reverse engineering, vulnerability
analysis and exploitation).

The first event will be hosted by the New Mexico Institute of Mining 
and Technology ([NMT](http://www.nmt.edu/ "New Mexico Tech")) Computer
Science Department in October 2009.

The contests and puzzles in the event are designed to be fun and challenging
for newbies and cyber security professionals alike, so don't worry if you 
aren't a *1337 h4xx0r*. Register a team and come have some fun.

Registration
============

If you would like to participate in the event, you **must** register a team
by **October 13, 2009**.

A team should generally consist of no more than 6 individuals; however,
larger teams can be accomodated (see note below).

To register your team, send an e-mail to <ctf@dirtbags.net> containing:

-	your name and contact information,
-	your team's name,
-	and the number of people on the team (including yourself).

**Note:** Teams with more than 6 members must provide any additional equipment
necessary to support the extra people (e.g., switches, CAT-5 cables, power
strips). Large teams must also be prepared for the possibility that they
will be expected to fit in a space designed for 6 people.

What to Bring
=============

The event organizers will provide a space in which to work, an 8-port
switch (with 6 free ports), a power strip, and a QNAP TS-239 box.

Each team is expected to provide any laptops, desktops (remember that
there is limited space), network cables, storage devices, and additional
networking equipment they need in order to work. An 8-port switch (with
6 free ports) is provided to each team as a courtesy, but need not be
used.  Contestants are encouraged to reconfigure the network topology in
their team area, adding more switches, firewalls, or whatever else they
desire.

**Warning:** The competition network is considered hostile; attacking the
machines of other participants is allowed within the contest rules. **If 
you bring a personal laptop or desktop, it may get hacked. Be prepared.** Malicious
attacks (e.g., stealing personal or sensitive information, causing permanent
damage) will be discouraged, but accidents happen and neither the event 
organizers nor New Mexico Tech will take responsibility for what happens
to your machine on the contest network.

